---
layout: 	post
title: 		Success*
date: 		2020-02-19 18:30 +0530
categories: [blogging, code]
tags: 		[life, lemons]
excerpt:	I guess life is handing out lemons today. Oh how I'd like to chunk them right back.
---

> When life gives you lemons, chunk it right back.
>
> <cite><a href="https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/112530-when-life-gives-you-lemons-chunk-it-right-back">Bill Waterson</a></cite>

I guess life is handing out lemons today. Oh how I'd like to chunk them right back.

Netlify works! It just works. It's simple to set up and painless to maintain. All I had to do was revert to the gem based theme and then follow the basic setup process for deployment of the blog repository on Netlify.

So, at this point, I should be happy... right? after all, I did get a working solution. However, for the basic free tier, Netlify allows a maximum of 300 build minutes/month. And guess what, each build of my blog takes ***over 5 mins***! That's with no extra features, nothing outside of a simple Jekyll deployment. At that rate, I have around 60 builds a month before I exceed my plan limits. I don't think I would ever be exceeding that, but it's nice to live with abandon.

This led me to think of employing a post commit hook. What I'd like to achieve is this -
* Write a post, make some change to the blog, whatever
* Commit change to `master` branch
* Post-commit hook builds the site, copies `_site` over to a `deploy` branch (could also be done using a dedicated script)
* Both `master` and `deploy` branches are pushed to Github
* Netlify watches the repo for pushes to the `deploy` branch (instead of `master` like it currently does). Commits here are then used to trigger a deploy

This way, the entire process of building the site takes places on my local machine, where it takes ***~2 seconds***. That's a massive difference!

And so it goes on.
